JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to another
in our Brief But Spectacular
series, where we ask people
to describe their passions.
Tonight, we hear from legendary
talk show host Dick Cavett,
whose in-depth discussions
kept American television
audiences entertained and
intellectually engaged
for more than five
decades.
His latest book is "Brief
Encounters: Conversations, Magic
Moments, and Assorted Hijinks."
DICK CAVETT, Author, "Brief
Encounters: Conversations,
Magic Moments, and
Assorted Hijinks": Somebody
said once, what's the secret
of doing a successful, what's
the Brits call a chat show?
If there is a secret,
it was enunciated by
the great Jack Paar.
He said, "Kid, don't
do interviews."
And I said, "Well, what do
I do Jack, read to them?"
He said, "Make it
a conversation."
People ask me, what kind of
show did you decide to do or how
would you describe your show?
And I have never been able
to come up with an answer for
that, because of the fact that
I never had any plan.
All I knew was I was being
thrown into and responsible for
90 minutes of live television.
But I had the advantage of
having seen great examples of
what I would be doing by Jack
Paar, Merv Griffin, Johnny
Carson, all of whom I wrote for.
JOHNNY CARSON, "The Tonight
Show": Would you welcome,
please, Mr. Dick Cavett?
(APPLAUSE)
DICK CAVETT: With Johnny, of
course, you could turn him on
in your head, how he will word
it, how many
syllables he will use.
All of that comes together to
make you able to write a line
that they can come out and
say and sound like themselves.
Will you welcome, please,
Mr. Marlon Brando?
(APPLAUSE)
DICK CAVETT: I was just
slap-happy delirious to
have Marlon Brando on
And my director admitted later
that he said, when Brando
threw that million-dollar grin
in a close-up shot,
I couldn't cut away.
My wife's favorite line from
that show is when I said:
Were you happy with the way
"The Godfather" came out?
MARLON BRANDO, Actor: I would
rather not talk about movies.
I don't think they're...
(LAUGHTER)
DICK CAVETT: I had the luck
of meeting and sitting with
Katharine Hepburn, Bette Davis,
Orson Welles, Fred Astaire,
Groucho Marx, Alfred Hitchcock,
Robert Mitchum, oh, and
the great John Huston.
Somebody semi-humorously warned
me, "You're becoming the poster
boy for depression," because
I would -- chose to talk about
it, because I found that,
when I did, it helped people.
I did shows with it, a thing
that is an ungodly task, as you
stand there sing merrily with
Ethel Merman, and you
feel like roadkill.
And people will say to
Robin Williams, you have
the thrill of going out
on stage and getting
an audience screaming
with happiness in their
life.
And, incidentally, I saw Robin
come off one night after doing
that and saying: "I could
make those people happy.
Why can't I make
myself that happy?"
That's central to the problem.
When people ask me, who's doing
what you did, or is there a
show that is similar to what
you were doing, I don't think
there's anything exactly like
it, partly because it's just
- - the medium
has changed a lot.
I might be more like parts
of Jon Stewart and certainly
parts of Stephen Colbert.
But people tell me
nothing is quite like it.
And I wish somebody would tell
me exactly what they mean.
My name is Dick Cavett, and
this is my, how shall I say,
Brief But Spectacular take on
my life and
conversation, I guess.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What a life
and a walk down memory lane.